What happens when you initialize a repository? Why do you need to do it?

When you use git init it makes a new repo. You still need to commit the repo.


How is the staging area different from the working directory and the repository? What value do you think it offers?

The staging area enabes you to control what you commit. The staging area gives you more power for controlling your commits. Maybe you made two logical changes since your last commit. But with a staging area you can still make two difrent commits.

More on the staging area. 

The staging area allows an intermiatory area so you can make more precise commits. 
You can add only the relevant changes in one commit and other changes in another 
commit. We can do this because of the staging area.

How is the staging area different from the working directory and the repository? What value do you think it offers?

The staging area is different because it is the place items are put before they are committed. With a staging area you can make several commits from the same working directly. This could be handy if I made two logical changes in two different files and would like to make two commits for the two changes.



How can you use the staging area to make sure you have one commit per logical change?


You can use the staging area to make one commit per logical change by only adding things relating to themselves to the staging area. Then you can make a commit. If you make two logicle changes that effect 10 files, you can add half to one staging area, followed by a commit and then the other half to another staging area followed by a commit.


One should make a commit with every logical change.



What are some situations when branches would be helpful in keeping your history organized? How would branches help?

Bracnhes could be helpful if you want to do something that may break your program. Or maybe you want to try something that would change your prorgam and make it do something completly difrent. Maybe you turn your shooting game into an algorythem that solves cancer. But you still want the shooting game. That would be a good time to start a branch.



How do the diagrams help you visualize the branch structure?

Diagrams helpme visuelise the structure becuase it does not seem that complicated. It seems like a tree data structure. It also has helped me understand the logic, that a branch will not have other inofmation another brnch has.




What is the result of merging two branches together? Why do we represent it in the diagram the way we do?

The result is a new master branch. Which will share the same commits. The commits will be orgnaized by time.


What are the pros and cons of Git’s automatic merging vs. always doing merges manually?

If we had to do merges manuelly then we would spend a lot of time doing work that
could be automated. But, sometimes we need to do a merge manuelly to ensure we get the desired result.









